#summary Frequently Asked Questions
== Where can I find more information on N50 length? ==
This, my most popular blog entry ever, discusses N50 in detail:

http://jermdemo.blogspot.com/2008/11/calculating-n50-from-velvet-output.html

== Why is the N50 reported in your report different from the one I see in the Log file produced by Velvet ==

The N50 in the Log file is in kmer units. The N50 in the report is in bp.

== I added kmer-1 to the N50 in the Log file and did not arrive at the number in your report. What is going on here? ==

You can't add kmer-1 to the kmer-N50 to arrive at the bp-N50. The math doesn't work like that. You need to convert all the contig lengths to bp and then calculate N50.

== I calculated the N50 from my contigs.fa file and got a different answer from kmer-N50 or your bp-N50. What the hell is wrong with this? ==

The contigs.fa contains by default only those contigs longer than 2kmers. Contigs shorter than that are considered spurious. So the N50 of sequences in your contigs.fa file will be considerably higher than that calculated from using the stats.txt file.

== Why do I get different read usage numbers when I specify -useamos in generateAssemblyStats.pl? ==

I think this is usually a side effect of allowing N's in your input sequences. Velvet will convert these to A's. If there is another read with a real A at that position Velvet will consider the N-posing-as-A read as used and the A read as unused. The point being you should just leave out or trim sequences with Ns.